1-
Today, I will present how technology affect 
labor demand and productivity.

2-
I use this article to tell about this topic.
Automation and New Tasks: How Technology 
Displaces and Reinstates Labor.
Professor Acemoglu and Pascual Restrepo are 
Institute Professors at MIT, he is an economist.
Most of the data I will share belongs to the US.
As you all know, automation is technologies 
which can do works with machine instead of people.

3- 
Everyone thinks that technology increases 
productivity. That’s right. There a lot of 
technological aspects and automation is one 
of the them. In this data, on the left, 
1947 - 1987, because of technological automation, 
a lot of people lose jobs. However, thanks to 
technology, as productivity increases, new jobs 
increase. Finally, total change in labor demand 
is zero. On the other hand, in the right, 
1987 - 2017, total change is more different than 
previous one. Because it is negative, Anymore 
automation is faster and technology provide 
less new jobs than previous one.

4- 
While the x axis shows the robot utilization 
rate of these regions, the y axis shows the 
employment. One of the Automation technologies 
is robot technology. The effect of robot technology 
on productivity is very positive. The companies 
that use robot technology increase their turnover. 
In this data, when we look at the regions of the 
USA that use more robot technology, it is seen 
that the employment in these areas is decreasing 
rapidly. Total Labor Demand decreases as automation 
increases.

5-
AI is a new technology. And it has several 
directions. But especially the big companies 
in USA google, facebook, amazon etc. 
They tend to use AI for automation. It is clear 
that technologies have great benefits for human 
beings, but how to use them. It must be determined 
correctly. How to do this is very complex and 
difficult to determine. We are not the people 
who will change the decisions of companies, 
I know this, but I think everyone working 
in the IT sector should be aware benefits and risks. 
I think that they are the ones who will understand 
the effect of this situation correctly and can 
tell the people around them.


6-
1) With the globalization of the world, many 
American companies thought they had to cut 
the most important machine to compete with cheap 
goods from China. And the biggest cost was 
workers' salaries. China does not have such a 
problem because they earn less than $130 a month.
2) The business model of large American companies 
is on automation.
3) Taxes on labor are higher than others. 
In other words, the tax system directs 
companies to automation.

7- 
In this data, you see the changes in the 
employment of profession groups in developed 
countries. You see a decrease in the employment 
of middle paying professions in all countries. 
Because automation has taken their place.

8-
Let's take a look at the inequality rates 
in the world - Gini Coefficient. We see that 
the inequality in almost all developed countries 
is increasing because of the decrease 
in the employment of middle paying professions.

9-
Covid-19 has accelerated automation. 
Because people couldn’t go to their 
jobs and they got sick. Social distancing 
and vulnerability to the virus encourages 
automation.

10-
Automation has a negative effect on 
unemployment and inequality. However, 
does it provide sufficient productivity? 
Generally, people who work in the field 
of technology believe technological 
changes brings good to everybody. They 
think technological developments cause 
radical results. Talented people win, 
and untalented people lose. But there 
is no need to worry. They will increase 
productivity so much that everyone's 
welfare will be better. Total factor 
productivity can show us whether this 
term is correct or not. Total factor 
productivity means that if the capital, 
labor and other factors of an economy 
remain the same, only productivity increases, 
it shows how big that economy will grow. 
This figure was very high until the 1980s. 
But we see that it is very low, especially 
after 2000 years when technology developed 
faster. As a result, Productivity couldn’t 
benefit from new technologies. Productivity 
is not getting enough.
